It is sometimes asserted that sound or noise may have adverse effects upon man's ability to perform nonauditory mental and motor tasks, even though the noise is not physiologically harmful. This possibility, which at first thought may seem reasonable, is not necessarily true. Indeed, as we shall see, it is a commonplace observation that, with respect to most nonauditory system responses, noise is sometimes reported to have a good effect, a bad effect, or no effect. Further, the correct meaning and interpretation of the results of some of these experiments are open to debate and the magnitude of the effects, when found, are often so small their measurement is difficult

Two small muscles in the middle ear, the tympani and stapidius, which are attached to the small ossicular bones that connect the eardrum with the cochlea, mediate the so-called aural reflex and thereby play a significant role in audition, particularly when noise is present. The aural reflex can influence the effects of noise with regard to masking, loudness, and auditory fatigue. The tympanic and stapidial muscles contract when the ear is exposed to a sound that is about 80 dB above threshold level. In man, the reflex action is inferred from (a) various perceptual auditory tests, (b) physical measurements of changes in the volume of the external ear canal, and (c) changes in the acoustic impedance of the eardrum. 

Terkildsen (796) found that the persons exposed to traumatic noise in industry and having significant hearing losses had somewhat weaker aural reflexes than persons with normal hearing. Hecker and Kryter (359), on the other hand, found that soldiers with large permanent hearing losses (presumably due to exposure to gunfire) showed greater aural reflexes than soldiers with normal hearing. These investigators also found that the men with greater reflex activity showed less TTS when exposed to gunfire than was exhibited by men with lesser aural reflexes; however, this difference may have been due to the decreased sensitivity (larger permanent hearing losses) of the former group relative to the latter and not because of some increased protection afforded by the aural reflex, although this latter is a possibility. It might also be noted in this regard that an elevation in a person's threshold of hearing due to noise-induced sensori-neural deafness would not necessarily change the normal loudness of the sound of the gunfire (presumably the factor that would elicit the reflex) because of loudness recruitment found in this type of hearing disorder (see Fig. 24). 

It is perhaps interesting to note that at a sound pressure level of somewhere near 70 dB or so, the 1000 Hz tone starts to become effective in the elicitation of the N-responses; the tone at this level is at a level that, if continued for a long enough time, will cause TTS and NIPTS, and is near the level (or comparable level in terms of perceived noisiness) that broadband noise may become somewhat significantly aversive to people.  

The average somatic arousal responses to sound discussed above are not what one would call a startle reaction to an unexpected frightening stimulus. While many of the somatic responses cited above are involved in the fright-startle reaction, the pattern is different. In particular, there is usually a change in rate of heart beat and blood pressure from startle that is not found in the arousal noted from sounds or noises that are more or less expected or normal to an experimental or real-life situation. 

It is perhaps worthwhile noting that while man (and no doubt most other hearing animals) adapts to background or "regular" noise, he readily responds when the auditory stimulus is changed in level or character. Thus this adaptation, in accordance with the usual definition given the word, must be recognized as some neural inhibition process and not a "fatiguing" of the organism. For example, Rossi et al (705) found that the adaptation of vasoconstriction in subjects exposed to a background noise (500 Hz tone at 70 dB) did not reduce vasoconstriction to superimposed 2000 Hz tones at levels of 80 to 105 dB. 

Anthony and Ackerman (34) found that rats, mice, and guinea pigs all showed physiological arousal or stress to intense broadband noise (110 dB to 140 dB), but that behavioral and histological data showed no harmful effects, and that satisfactory adaptation had occurred. However, while the noise by itself was not harmful, it appeared to reduce survival time when coupled with food restriction for those animals showing audiogenic seizures (muscular spasms and "fits", sometimes coupled with unconsciousness that are peculiar to certain strains of mice and rats, particularly when suffering from middle ear infections). Because of the audiogenic seizure syndrome, it is not justified to generalize to man the results of auditory-stress experiments performed with rats. It appears that rats or mice that experience these seizures suffer abnormal auditory systems and/or infections (429a) and must be specially bred (11 la). 

In short, it is conceivable and may be fortunately true, that the more isolation a person needs from noise or other sensory stimulation because of a physiological or psychological health reason, the less sensitivity will that person have to his noise environment. This is not to say, of course, that this suggested ability should be exercised to its limits or that the persons involved psychologically appreciate the fact. And there is the not implausible possibility that sometimes the discomfort felt by persons when ill or when trying to sleep is generalized and blamed on the noise because the noise attracts their attention rather than the noise being the basic source of their discomfort. Also, it would seem improbable, as noted earlier, that a biological system would not have internal mechanisms to protect itself from overstimulation by its own receptors. In spite of the comfort of such rationalizations, and the support of some emperical data and lack of uncontestable contrary data, the notion of possible harmful effects to some nonauditory systems as the result of auditory stimulation cannot be completely dismissed at this time

Gardener and Licklider (280) developed a device that permitted a dental patient to listen, via earphones, to stereophonic music or filtered random noise. The typical procedure was for the patient to relax by listening to the music and to switch to the noise when he felt any dental pain, increasing the intensity of the noise as necessary to "kill" the pain. Specifications of tolerable durations and intensities of the noise to prevent undue auditory fatigue from the device were established. The experience of a few thousand dentists using the device was found (personal communication from the inventors, based on an independent users survey) to be about as follows: a third or so of the dentists found complete analgesia; a third found partial, but significant, analgesia; and a third found essentially no analgesic effects in their patients. Those who found analgesic effects claimed that the operative and postoperative conditions of the patients were better than with local or general anesthetics, which apparently is a general medical finding relative to the use of anesthetics. It was clear from the surveys made that when the device was a successful analgesic in dentistry, the confidence of the patient and the dentists in the efficacy of the procedure was an important, if not a necessary requirement. 

Neural impulses from the auditory system serve to preempt to some extent the activity of centers in the reticular formation of the brain stem that are involved in the processing of pain impulses to the higher nerve centers. The neurological evidence and theory for this type of activity is meager, but not without some substance 

Connected to the cochlea of the inner ear are the so-called sacculus, utricle, and semicircular canals. These structures, called the vestibular organs, share certain fluids with the cochlea and their innervations are closely connected (see Fig. 2). These vestibular organs are involved in maintaining body balance and orientation in space. When stimulated in certain ways, a person may loose his sense of balance, become dizzy, his eyes may show nystagmus movements (a fast movement back and forth of the eyeballs) and under extreme conditions he may become nauseated. 

However, some of the inconsistencies in the results of laboratory and field tests of the effects of noise on work, particularly in small groups, could conceivably be attributable to unintended, by the experimenter, stimulus and response contingency interpretations of the meaning of the noise by the subjects (such as the subjects viewing the noise as signifying the "more important part of the experiment" and that he should work harder, or that the noise is punishment and the "quiet" reward, etc.). The occasional possible role and importance of these factors in the explanation of the effects of noise on work performance will be discussed late

It should be noted that: 1. Greater confidence could be placed in the results had the control of Noise-Quiet-Quiet-Noise runs also been conducted to obviate any possible sequence effects. 2. Of more importance is the fact that the data for the lights show no "blink" effect as postulated by the theory. Broadbent suggests that blinks only work for more difficult tasks and cites Jerison's findings that, for a "one clock" test, noise did not affect performance but, with a "three clock" test, the noise at a level of 114 dB caused a decrement relative to the quiet. It would seem, however, that if the noise served as an ever-present and waiting source of distraction, there would be more blinks for the easier light tests, i.e., less competition for perceptual attention

The experimental findings of Corcoran (160) and Wilkinson (877) shown in Fig. 276 are pertinent to this question. Here it is seen that sleep-deprived subjects (57, 32, and 24 hours) generally performed better in 100 dB and 90 dB random noise than in the quiet, particularly in the later parts of the test sessions. In general, although not consistently, the subjects within a group (sleep deprived or nonsleep deprived) tended to perform better in the quiet than in the noise. 

Jerison and Arginteanu suggest a two-factor description of the effect of noise on time estimation: 1. As a neutral acoustic stimulus, noise fills and expands the time scale, i.e., as was found by Hirsh et al (380), in the presence of a neutral background sound, less time is judged to have passed than actually has. 2. As an adverse stimulus, noise contracts the time scale, i.e., more time is judged to have passed than actually has. It is clear that noise, at least for relatively short exposures, does affect subjective estimates of the passing of time. How this effect of noise influences mental or motor work performance, if indeed it does, has not been fully studied. 

Explicit in much of the thinking underlying the planning and interpretation of many of the research studies discussed above has been the thought that noise is a distractive stimulus that competes for a person's attention, and arouses the organism because it is an intense, aversive.stimulus. Consciousness of the arousal reactions in the body may be another (besides the direct auditory) sensation that somehow, either at a neural or muscular level, or both, inhibits or enhances the organized activity required to perform a task. Accordingly, much of the previous research material presented could be subsumed under this very general theory. 

It is conceivable that even during the period of somatic responses, the organism is physically and mentally fully capable, perhaps more so, of performing tasks; perhaps the organism is thrown into a state of perceptual and bodily awareness in order to best recognize and respond to the new stimuli. In short, his attention is fully directed to the new situation. The time required to recognize the relevance or irrelevance of the new stimulus (say, sudden noise) probably represents the distractive effect of noise, the arousal per se being of some benefit to the organism. 

As mentioned earlier, a sound or noise may on occasion mask other sounds or noises that can disturb or distract a worker thereby reducing productivity. For some purposes, in generally quiet surroundings, a low-level broadband random noise may be introduced to increase a sense of privacy with some possible beneficial effects. Music has also been used in work situations, not so much perhaps to mask other sounds, but to provide some pleasant stimuli to persons doing nonauditory work. The presumptions have been that work output will be increased because of improved morale, or that people are kept more aroused and alert than they otherwise become in monotonous jobs. Figure 286 shows some data obtained in one study (891) on this matter. There appears to be some, but no consistent, relation between the presence of music and work output. The clearly cyclic characteristics of the work output makes firm interpretation of the data difficult. 

The distillation of physiological and psychological factors given above is perhaps still too complicated to provide a framework for understanding the fascinating mass of data and observations that are available about the effects of noise on nonauditory mental and motor work. At the same time, it appears that anything less complex provides too limited a view to explain all of the effects that have been reported. 



